Image builder gh integration docs (#10983)
kyma-project/test-infra: cmd/image-builder/README.md

# Image Builder

Image Builder is a tool for building OCI-compliant images in SLC-29 compliant system from GitHub workflow.

> It signs images with a signify service to verify that the image comes from a trusted repository and has not been altered in the meantime.

Reviewer: Do you mean `signing service` (as in the deprecated doc)? If you do, please also change the other occurrences of `signify`.

Author: No, the `signify` is the correct name. This is the name of signing service we are using.

2. `build-image` - a job that builds the image using the Image Builder reusable workflow.
   It uses the `kyma-project/test-infra/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml@main` reusable workflow.
   It builds the `test-infra/ginkgo` image, using the Dockerfile from the `prow/images/gingko/Dockerfile` path.
   The build context is the current directory which effectively means the repository root.
   It uses the `envs` file to load environment variables.
   The image will be tagged with the tag computed in the `compute-tag` job.
3. `test-image` - a job that tests the image build in `build-image` job. It uses the `build-image` job output to get the image name.

## Workflow Permissions

Image Builder reusable workflow requires permissions to access the repository and get OIDC token from GitHub identity provider.
You must provide the following permissions to the workflow or the job that uses the reusable workflow:

```yaml
permissions:
   id-token: write # This is required for requesting the OIDC token
   contents: read # This is required for actions/checkout
```

## Supported Events

> Image Builder reusable workflow supports the following GitHub events to trigger workflow:

Reviewer: `a workflow` is correct if you mean another, not specified workflow. If you mean a specific workflow, use `the`.

* `push` - to build images on push to the specified branch.
* `pull_request_target` - to build images on pull requests.

> ## Reusable Workflow Ref

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reusable Workflow Reference
```

The workflow that uses the Image Builder reusable workflow must use the exact reference to the reusable workflow.
The value of the `uses` key must be `kyma-project/test-infra/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml@main`.

```yaml
uses: kyma-project/test-infra/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml@main
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Using different references to the reusable workflow will result in an error during the workflow execution.

## Reusable Workflow Inputs

> Image Builder reusable workflow accepts inputs to parametrize the build process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Image Builder reusable workflow accepts inputs to parametrize the build process.
```

> See accepted inputs description in the [image-builder reusable workflow](/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the accepted inputs description in the [image-builder reusable workflow](/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml) file.
```

## Reusable Workflow Outputs

> Image Builder reusable workflow provides outputs to pass the results of the build process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Image Builder reusable workflow provides outputs to pass the results of the build process.
```

> See provided outputs description in the [image-builder reusable workflow](/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the provided outputs description in the [image-builder reusable workflow](/.github/workflows/image-builder.yml) file.
```

## Supported Image Repositories

Image Builder supports pushing images to the Google Cloud Artifact registries.

> - Images build on pull requests are pushed to the dev repository, `europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev`.
> - Images build on push events are pushed to the production repository, `europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Images built on pull requests are pushed to the dev repository, `europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/dev`.
- Images built on `push` events are pushed to the production repository, `europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod`.
```

### Image URI

The URI of the image built by Image Builder is constructed as follows:

```
europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/<repository>/<image-name>:<tag>
```

Where:

* `<repository>` is the repository where the image is pushed. It can be either `dev` or `prod`, based on the event that triggered the build.
* `<image-name>` is the name of the image provided in the `name` input.

> * `<tag>` is the tag of the image provided in the `tags` input or default tag value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `<tag>` is the tag of the image provided in the `tags` input or the default tag value.
```

## Image Signing

Image Builder signs images with a signify service.
By default, Image Builder signs images with the production signify service.
Image signing allows verification that the image comes from a trusted repository and has not been altered in the meantime.

> [!NOTE]

> > Image Builder signs images build on push event only. Images build in pull_request_target event are not signed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Image Builder signs images built in the `push` event only. Images built in the `pull_request_target` event are not signed.
```

Author: The workflow is running as a consequence of happening a `push` or a `pull_request_target` event. We don't run something in the event, rather we run something when this event occurs. Should we still use `in the` instead `on`?

Reviewer: No, not really. How about `resulting from`? If you still don't like it, keep `on`. But you originally wrote `in pull_request_target event` - is this phrase different in meaning from the first one?

Author: I've aligned the sentence to use `on` only.

## Named Tags

Image Builder supports passing the name along with the tag, using both the `-tag` option and the config for the tag template.
You can use `-tag name=value` to pass the name for the tag. 

If the name is not provided, it is evaluated from the value:
 - if the value is a string, it is used as a name directly. For example,`-tag latest` is equal to `-tag latest=latest`
 - if the value is go-template, it will be converted to a valid name. For example, `-tag v{{ .ShortSHA }}-{{ .Date }}` is equal to `-tag vShortSHA-Date=v{{ .ShortSHA }}-{{ .Date }}`

> [!Note]

> > When running on pull_request_target event, Image Builder ignores additional tags provided with tags input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When running on the `pull_request_target` event, Image Builder ignores additional tags provided with tags input.
```

> > Image will be tagged only with the default PR-<PR_NUMBER> tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The image will be tagged only with the default PR-<PR_NUMBER> tag.
```

## Environment File

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Support for env files is still a work in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Support for `env` files is still a work in progress.
```

The environment file contains environment variables to be loaded in the build.
The file must be in the format of `key=value` pairs, separated by newlines.

## Azure DevOps Backend (ADO)

> The Image Builder uses ADO `oci-image-builder` pipeline as a build backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image Builder uses the ADO `oci-image-builder` pipeline as a build backend.
```
